today on Tony ten-speed we're going to
be talking about master Lakes what I
like to call quick links the links that
allow for easy removal and installation
of most ten-speed genes there are
several tools when working with master
links to make life much easier
one remover open the link such as that
made by Park Tool one to install or
close the link as made by KMC both sell
for $15 each but make removal and
installation a breeze
you'll also need our chain tensioner
which we built in the video chain
replacement part one from an old coat
hanger
shift to the smallest chainring and
smallest cog apply our tensioner
to give us some slack in our master link
apply the master link pliers to either
side of the master link squeeze remove
and our master link will come right off
when cutting or what we call breaking a
new chain to match the one we removed
make sure they're exactly equally and
that both the old a new chain and in the
portion of the link containing just the
inner plate and rollers so we can attach
the master link also note the Shimano
tends to be that I have there are some
writing on the outside or on one side of
the chain and not on the other the
instructions that come with the chains
how you to mount it with the writing on
the chain towards you and the blank part
towards the bike frame
after cleaning or replacing the chain
for SRAM take a new master link
place one end
one end of the chain the other on the
other end hook them up
into the hole
closest to the middle on either side
we're going to have to now use another
tool and push this pin and lock it in
place and move the inner portion of the
links apart to do that
we'll take our KMC tool
put it on either side of the master link
and then we'll squeeze
and we can see that the pin has now
moved to the outer portion of the hole
the link is in place check both sides to
make sure that the pin is fully engaged
on each side
remove the tensioner and we're ready to
go
just a word on the different master
links that are available the SRAM force
ram ten speed chains it's not reusable
as we said once you take it off for
whatever reason you can clean the chain
replace it with a new link KMC which
will fit all ten speed chains
are reusable two to three times for the
link for the life of the chain after
that when you put on a new chain replace
it with a new master link KMC also makes
a special master link for can't be 10
and I suggest for campi you use the KMC
10 CR for the 11 speed k MC makes a ml
11 campi also makes a special 11 speed
master link and finally for the whip
ermine conics there is a master link
fits together differently we will look
at these master links a little closer on
a future video this connects will fit
the other chains I don't advise using it
for anything but the woofer main chain
and we'll go into that a little more
thoroughly on our future video
you